README.md, before:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/damoiser/qr-bills/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/damoiser/qr-bills/tree/master)
![](https://ruby-gem-downloads-badge.herokuapp.com/qr-bills?type=total)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/qr-bills.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/qr-bills)
[![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg)](https://www.paypal.com/donate?business=DJNJMV5YAEBT6&currency_code=CHF)

QR-Bills gem for implementing Swiss payments.

## Notes

Please note that **no checks are performed to validate IBAN and references (like Creditor Reference)** when submitting the params.
These checks are required to be performed by the application.

###  Deprecation warnings &#x26a0;&#xfe0f;
:warning: :fire: If you are using `qrcode_filepath` please switch and start using `qrcode_format` as `qrcode_filepath` will be deprecated and removed!

## Installation

### Gem installation

```bash
gem install qr-bills
```
* [Rubygems > qr-bills](https://rubygems.org/gems/qr-bills)

### Locales / Translations

To support translations, copy/paste the 4 languages code into your I18n engine: `config/locales/*.yml`

## Usage

### Generate a creditor reference (ISO-11649) number

The creditor reference is composed as follow:
* RF + 2 check digits + reference

Max reference length is 21 chars.

```ruby
QRBills.create_creditor_reference("MTR81UUWZYO48NY55NP3")
# => "RF89MTR81UUWZYO48NY55NP3"
```

### Availables outputs formats

```ruby
params[:output_params][:format] = "html"
# OR
params[:output_params][:format] = "png"
# OR
params[:output_params][:format] = "svg"
```

* `html` returns a full qr-bill as a html-template string, uses `params[:qrcode_format]` for the qrcode format which supports `png` and `svg`. Defaults to `png`.
* `png` returns the qrcode of the qr-bill as a ChunkyPNG::Image object.
* `svg` returns the qrcode of the qr-bill as a svg string.

### Availables qr-bill types formats

#### QR bill with (new) creditor reference

This is a new bill type introduced with the new qr bills format
```ruby
params[:bill_type]                      = QRBills.get_qrbill_with_creditor_reference_type
params[:bill_params][:reference_type]   = "SCOR" # fixed type for bill with creditor reference
params[:bill_params][:reference]        = "RF89MTR81UUWZYO48NY55NP3" # example
```

![QR bill with creditor reference](./imgs/qr_bill_with_creditor_reference.png)

#### QR bill with (old) reference type

This can be compared to the (old) orange bill type
```ruby
params[:bill_type]                      = QRBills.get_qrbill_with_qr_reference_type
params[:bill_params][:reference_type]   = "QRR" # fixed type for bill with qr reference
params[:bill_params][:reference]        = "00 00037 01588 13258 31366 09972" # example
```

![QR bill with (old) reference type](./imgs/qr_bill_with_old_reference.png)

#### QR bill without reference

This can be compared to the (old) red bill type
```ruby
params[:bill_type]                      = QRBills.get_qrbill_without_reference_type
params[:bill_params][:reference_type]   = "NON" # fixed type for bill without reference
```

![QR bill without reference](./imgs/qr_bill_without_reference.png)

### Generate a QR-Bill

```ruby
# get the QR params, so you will get the full hash structure and as well some default values
params = QRBills.get_qr_params

# fill the params, for example
params[:bill_type]                                      = QRBills.get_qrbill_with_creditor_reference_type
params[:qrcode_filepath]                                = "#{Dir.pwd}/tmp/qrcode-html.png"
params[:qrcode_format]                                  = "svg" # use qrcode_format with "svg" / "png" instead of qrcode_filepath to use a data url encoded qr code
params[:output_params][:format]                         = "html"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:iban]                  = "CH93 0076 2011 6238 5295 7"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:type]        = "S" # or type "K"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:name]        = "Compagnia di assicurazione forma & scalciante"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:line1]       = "Via cantonale"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:line2]       = "24"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:postal_code] = "3000"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:town]        = "Lugano"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:country]     = "CH"
params[:bill_params][:amount]                           = 12345.15
params[:bill_params][:currency]                         = "CHF"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:type]          = "S"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:name]          = "Foobar Barfoot"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:line1]         = "Via cantonale"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:line2]         = "25"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:postal_code]   = "3001"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:town]          = "Comano"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:country]       = "CH"
# you can get the new creditor reference using QRBills.create_creditor_reference("your_reference") 
params[:bill_params][:reference]                        = "RF89MTR81UUWZYO48NY55NP3" 
params[:bill_params][:reference_type]                   = "SCOR"
params[:bill_params][:additionally_information]         = "pagamento riparazione monopattino"

# generate the QR Bill
bill = QRBills.generate(params)

# bill format is given in the params, default is html
# bill has the following format:
#    bill = {
#      params: params,
#      output: "output"
#    }

```

## References
* https://www.paymentstandards.ch/dam/downloads/ig-qr-bill-en.pdf
* https://www.paymentstandards.ch/en/shared/know-how/faq/qr.html
* https://www.kmu.admin.ch/kmu/it/home/consigli-pratici/questioni-finanziarie/contabilita-e-revisione/introduzione-della-qr-fattura.html
* https://www.paymentstandards.ch/dam/downloads/drehbuch-rechnung-steller-empfaenger-it.pdf

## TODO

* add other outputs formats
* add "empty" QR-Bill
![QR bill empty](./imgs/qr_bill_empty.png)

## License

BSD-3

Commit message:

Add QRBills.create_esr_reference (#31)
* Add QRBills.create_esr_reference

* bump ruby version

* bump gem version

* add more error handling and tests

* up license

* Rename esr creditor reference method, add QRBills.iban_type and improve documentation.

---------

Co-authored-by: Damiano Radice <dam.radice@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/damoiser/qr-bills/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/damoiser/qr-bills/tree/master)
![](https://ruby-gem-downloads-badge.herokuapp.com/qr-bills?type=total)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/qr-bills.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/qr-bills)
[![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg)](https://www.paypal.com/donate?business=DJNJMV5YAEBT6&currency_code=CHF)

QR-Bills gem for implementing Swiss payments.

## Notes

Please note that **no checks are performed to validate IBAN and references (like Creditor Reference)** when submitting the params.
These checks are required to be performed by the application.

###  Deprecation warnings &#x26a0;&#xfe0f;
:warning: :fire: If you are using `qrcode_filepath` please switch and start using `qrcode_format` as `qrcode_filepath` will be deprecated and removed!

## Installation

### Gem installation

```bash
gem install qr-bills
```
* [Rubygems > qr-bills](https://rubygems.org/gems/qr-bills)

### Locales / Translations

To support translations, copy/paste the 4 languages code into your I18n engine: `config/locales/*.yml`

## Usage

### Generate a creditor reference (ISO-11649) number

The creditor reference is composed as follow:
* RF + 2 check digits + reference

Max reference length is 21 chars.

```ruby
QRBills.create_creditor_reference("MTR81UUWZYO48NY55NP3")
# => "RF89MTR81UUWZYO48NY55NP3"
```

When generating an invoice with a reference number where the creditor has an old (deprecated) ESR IBAN, the reference number must be of a different format. Refer to the comments above `QRBills.iban_type` for details.

### Availables outputs formats

```ruby
params[:output_params][:format] = "html"
# OR
params[:output_params][:format] = "png"
# OR
params[:output_params][:format] = "svg"
```

* `html` returns a full qr-bill as a html-template string, uses `params[:qrcode_format]` for the qrcode format which supports `png` and `svg`. Defaults to `png`.
* `png` returns the qrcode of the qr-bill as a ChunkyPNG::Image object.
* `svg` returns the qrcode of the qr-bill as a svg string.

### Availables qr-bill types formats

#### QR bill with (new) creditor reference

This is a new bill type introduced with the new qr bills format
```ruby
params[:bill_type]                      = QRBills.get_qrbill_with_creditor_reference_type
params[:bill_params][:reference_type]   = "SCOR" # fixed type for bill with creditor reference
params[:bill_params][:reference]        = "RF89MTR81UUWZYO48NY55NP3" # example
```

![QR bill with creditor reference](./imgs/qr_bill_with_creditor_reference.png)

#### QR bill with (old) reference type

This can be compared to the (old) orange bill type
```ruby
params[:bill_type]                      = QRBills.get_qrbill_with_qr_reference_type
params[:bill_params][:reference_type]   = "QRR" # fixed type for bill with qr reference
params[:bill_params][:reference]        = "00 00037 01588 13258 31366 09972" # example
```

![QR bill with (old) reference type](./imgs/qr_bill_with_old_reference.png)

#### QR bill without reference

This can be compared to the (old) red bill type
```ruby
params[:bill_type]                      = QRBills.get_qrbill_without_reference_type
params[:bill_params][:reference_type]   = "NON" # fixed type for bill without reference
```

![QR bill without reference](./imgs/qr_bill_without_reference.png)

### Generate a QR-Bill

```ruby
# get the QR params, so you will get the full hash structure and as well some default values
params = QRBills.get_qr_params

# fill the params, for example
params[:bill_type]                                      = QRBills.get_qrbill_with_creditor_reference_type
params[:qrcode_filepath]                                = "#{Dir.pwd}/tmp/qrcode-html.png"
params[:qrcode_format]                                  = "svg" # use qrcode_format with "svg" / "png" instead of qrcode_filepath to use a data url encoded qr code
params[:output_params][:format]                         = "html"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:iban]                  = "CH93 0076 2011 6238 5295 7"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:type]        = "S" # or type "K"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:name]        = "Compagnia di assicurazione forma & scalciante"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:line1]       = "Via cantonale"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:line2]       = "24"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:postal_code] = "3000"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:town]        = "Lugano"
params[:bill_params][:creditor][:address][:country]     = "CH"
params[:bill_params][:amount]                           = 12345.15
params[:bill_params][:currency]                         = "CHF"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:type]          = "S"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:name]          = "Foobar Barfoot"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:line1]         = "Via cantonale"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:line2]         = "25"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:postal_code]   = "3001"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:town]          = "Comano"
params[:bill_params][:debtor][:address][:country]       = "CH"
# you can get the new creditor reference using QRBills.create_creditor_reference("your_reference")
params[:bill_params][:reference]                        = "RF89MTR81UUWZYO48NY55NP3"
params[:bill_params][:reference_type]                   = "SCOR"
params[:bill_params][:additionally_information]         = "pagamento riparazione monopattino"

# generate the QR Bill
bill = QRBills.generate(params)

# bill format is given in the params, default is html
# bill has the following format:
#    bill = {
#      params: params,
#      output: "output"
#    }

```

## References
* https://www.paymentstandards.ch/dam/downloads/ig-qr-bill-en.pdf
* https://www.paymentstandards.ch/en/shared/know-how/faq/qr.html
* https://www.kmu.admin.ch/kmu/it/home/consigli-pratici/questioni-finanziarie/contabilita-e-revisione/introduzione-della-qr-fattura.html
* https://www.paymentstandards.ch/dam/downloads/drehbuch-rechnung-steller-empfaenger-it.pdf

## TODO

* add other outputs formats
* add "empty" QR-Bill
![QR bill empty](./imgs/qr_bill_empty.png)

## License

BSD-3
